# X4: Foundations
A Single-Player Space Sandbox. Mostly focused on Economy, but there's also ship commands and combat, but the AI is generally pretty unreliable. Production chains focus on [three different](https://x4prodchart.com/) tiers, but is overall still pretty simple. Ships are mostly built of T3 materials, so starting from scratch is not an option. Bigger / Better ships just require more materials. Each playthrough starts with the same Universe layout, and factions are seeded in the same locations, but from there on, sector ownership slowly changes dynamically over time. Except for the terran faction, everyone uses the same recipes for everything - even faction specific consumables are just the same recipe with different names. In vanilla X4 the AI Economy cannot survive without player intervention; There are shortages everywhere. The game can be modded through a special XML format and the UI doesn't support bigger empires all that well - there is no way to search or group things, it's all just a big list.

### Monetization
One time purchase (50€), yearly DLC Releases (15€ each)

### Inspirations for us
- Universe/Sector Layout (Hexagons connected through gates)
- The map in general. Visually, our game is basically going to be just X4's map screen.
- Station & Trade mechanics
- Shipbuilding

### Main differences to our game
- Our universe will be dynamically created, and factions won't be locked in place.
- We will have highly simplified station building, and stations cannot be walked in.
- Planets can be colonized.
- Asteroids move through a sector instead of just randomly respawning at set places, thus it'll be easy to see how many resources are available.
- Product Tiers will be more relevant, as (bad) ships can already be constructed from T1 ingredients alone.
- We will have multiplayer
- We will have a tad more automation (eg. stations could be set up to order ships on their own)
- We won't have any Crew levels, and Ship Crew in general is just a number for us.
